S02-03 — Exact approval-gated creation and commitment edits
Verified: 2026-07-30 (Asia/Singapore)

Required focused verification
Command:
  npm run test --workspace @shiori/server -- src/agent src/commitments src/work-sessions
Result: PASS
Test files: 17 passed (17)
Tests: 168 passed (168)

Required server type verification
Command:
  npm run typecheck:server
Result: PASS

Clean migration verification
Command:
  npx supabase@latest db reset --local
Result: PASS
All migrations applied through:
  20260730080000_approve_commitment_edits.sql

Focused local database probes
Command:
  node --env-file=.env.local node_modules/vitest/vitest.mjs run
  --config vitest.db.config.ts
  server/test/approved-commitment-change-db.integration.ts
  server/test/agent-session-db.integration.ts
Result: PASS
Test files: 2 passed (2)
Tests: 5 passed (5)

Required full database verification
Command:
  npm run test:db
Result: PASS
Test files: 13 passed (13)
Tests: 34 passed (34)

Full repository gate
Command:
  npm run check
Result: PASS
Server tests: 522 passed
Release-verifier tests: 22 passed
Isolated Playwright tests: 50 passed
Server and web typechecks: PASS
Server and web production builds: PASS

Acceptance evidence
AC1 PASS — The update_commitment Agents SDK tool and the existing exact
creation tool interrupt the active durable run. The application renders the
preview and seals the paused state against the exact tool, owner chat, session,
entity ID, and version. Unit tests prove the consequential callback is not
invoked before approval. Real Agents SDK integration tests use Runner,
RunState serialization/rehydration, and a deterministic model provider to
prove creation and edit interruptions without directly invoking FunctionTool.

AC2 PASS — Every new simple, preparation, and no-preparation path continues the
active durable session with exact sanitized product/conversation context and
stages only the execute_commitment interruption returned by that run. The
disconnected prepareExecution/gate.prepare path no longer exists. Resume builds
the authoritative proposal or edit context and exact interrupted tool before
RunState rehydration, then uses the existing atomic transaction.

AC3 PASS — The local database probe applies one exact version-1 edit, writes
version 2, cancels the obsolete unsent reminder, creates the version-2
replacement, and appends one commitment.changed event plus one receipt. A
work-shaped probe cancels the former planned session and both unsent messages,
then creates exactly one replacement session and two replacement schedules.
A started-session probe proves target, preparation, next-plan, and definition
edits are rejected without a version, receipt, or event change and its pending
end check-in remains untouched.

AC4 PASS — ApprovedCommitmentChangeService rechecks the exact proposed window
immediately before the transaction. Unit tests cover free, reject-on-conflict,
explicit conflict keep, reject-on-unavailable, and explicit unverified-save
policies. Calendar is read-only and raw Calendar data is not persisted.

AC5 PASS — Runtime, approval-gate, callback, service, and local database tests
cover rejection, authority mismatch, stale versions, exact replay, terminal
commitments, active work sessions, and interrupted retry. Real SDK tests prove
approve/reject for creation and edits plus fail-closed absent/mismatched tool
rehydration. The transaction probe proves exact replay is harmless, a different
stale update cannot mutate, and a completed promise cannot reopen.

Database and security notes
- The edit RPC owns one row-locked transaction for commitment fields, planned
  work-session replacement, unsent schedule cancellation/replacement, receipt,
  version increment, and append-only change event.
- Existing target immutability remains fail-closed. Only the approved edit RPC
  sets a transaction-local binding for the exact commitment while performing
  its version-checked update.
- Change-event metadata contains only changed field names and versions.
- Edit-time cancellation is limited to the exact obsolete simple reminder or
  exact obsolete planned session; active start/end check-ins are never swept.
- No production or remote Supabase state was accessed or changed.
- Local Supabase credentials were supplied only to the test process and are
  not present in this artifact.

Test-contract debt repaired
The two S02-01/S02-02 database tests still called the removed recordTurn API
and asserted the superseded six-turn model. They now use the durable Agents SDK
Session contract while retaining equivalent coverage for encrypted storage,
restart restoration, operation replay, stale-handle CAS, approval authority,
and terminal cleanup.

Verification deviations
- The first npm run check attempt was sandboxed and Playwright could not bind
  its local server to 0.0.0.0:3000 (EPERM). The exact command was rerun with
  local port binding permission and passed in full.
- Adding the new alphabetically earlier DB test exposed an order-dependent
  conversation test that asserted global table emptiness. Its assertions now
  scope commitments, schedules, and events to the draft under test; the clean
  full DB suite then passed.
