S02-01 durable agent session verification
Generated: 2026-07-30 (Asia/Singapore)

Required command:
  npm run test --workspace @shiori/server -- src/agent

Result:
  PASS
  Test Files  7 passed (7)
  Tests       58 passed (58)

Required command:
  npm run typecheck:server

Result:
  PASS
  @shiori/server tsc -p tsconfig.json --noEmit

Additional regression command:
  npm run test --workspace @shiori/server

Result:
  PASS
  Test Files  31 passed (31)
  Tests       471 passed (471)

Acceptance evidence:
  AC1: repository tests persist and restore 16 SDK-compatible items; the
       working context is bounded independently and no six-turn deletion
       remains.
  AC2: a new repository/session adapter instance restores the same persisted
       session id and items, exercising process-restart continuity.
  AC3: two encrypted-cursor history pages return ordered sequences 41-60 and
       21-40 with no overlap and the correct next boundary.
  AC4: SDK items, callback choices, pending questions, compaction checkpoints,
       and paused approval state are application-encrypted. Reasoning items are
       discarded. Runtime tests assert model store=false and tracing excludes
       sensitive data.
  AC5: the owner-authenticated reset endpoint rejects unauthenticated and
       invalid requests. Clean-migration database probes confirm reset/forget
       deletes agent session and approval rows while preserving commitment
       rows.

Review repair evidence:
  - Callback context tests cover d:, w:, p:, x:, s:, and c: callback families.
    The recorder receives the callback only after the authoritative service
    returns, projects it to an allowlisted family.action value, and stores the
    resulting application reply or pending question. Raw callback data, entity
    ids, and callback button payloads are not persisted.
  - AGENT_SESSION_RETENTION_SECONDS is validated as an integer from 3600 to
    2592000 seconds. Configuration tests cover the 30-day default, a valid
    override, and malformed/out-of-range rejection. The production repository
    receives the validated configured value.
  - Callback persistence reloads and retries up to three CAS conflicts. A
    non-conflict persistence error aborts before callback acknowledgement so
    Telegram can redeliver the update. On redelivery, a null domain replay is
    paired with an application-controlled final response and the same update
    receipt; regenerated encrypted item/context ids replay the existing receipt
    without adding a second session item.
  - Tests cover a CAS conflict, a transient context-write failure followed by
    replay recovery, the domain-commit/process-gap equivalent at Telegram
    ingress, and a successful duplicate receipt replay.

Database migration verification:
  A clean all-migrations PostgreSQL run passed. Service-role/RLS probes passed
  for lazy creation, CAS append, monotonic item ordering, bounded nonduplicate
  pagination, encrypted interaction context, local compaction checkpoints,
  pop, idempotent replay, and reset/forget domain-data isolation. Anonymous
  execute was denied and service_role execute was allowed.
